## Domain Name

Before you even host Blink, you'll need a domain of your choosing (for example, https://blink.rest) and think about how you want Blink to shorten your links.

## Identity Provider

One thing you'll need no matter which approach you take to install Blink is an external identity provider (SSO) that speaks OIDC protocol.
In short, it is a central place to register and manage users, and Blink will use the information provided by the SSO to provision users locally, without needing to get the user's credentials/passwords.

In general, any SSO nowadays support the OIDC protocol, which means Blink can work with it.
SSOs with OIDC support include:

- Keycloak (which is what we use for development as well)
- Azure Active Directory
- Google Workspace Identity
- Okta
- Auth0

etc.

Note that if you only have LDAP directories, you can use Keycloak or similar "gateway" software (such as [dex](https://github.com/dexidp/dex) or any of the "commercial" SSO products) to expose your user directory via OIDC.

## OIDC Configuration

Once you have your identity provider, you will need to configure the Blink server to talk to your SSO and the SSO to talk to the Blink server. I will use Keycloak's documentation for example below, but note that I am only using features that are part of the standard OIDC protocol, so the same process applies for _all_ OIDC SSOs, whether you're using AD or Okta.

`OIDC_CLIENT_ID`, `OIDC_ISSUER_BASE_URL`, `OIDC_NAME_FIELD`

`token_endpoint_auth_method` is `none`

### Client

First, you must create an OIDC client for Blink.

See https://www.keycloak.org/docs/latest/server_admin/#oidc-clients

### OIDC Protocol

### User Information
